# Exploring Compression techniques with an aim of Data Volume Reduction in High Performance Computing Monitoring System
Time series data is ubiquitous in our information-hungry world. From smart homes to self-driving cars, from stock markets to retail industries, monitors and sensors are continuously collecting time series data that provides invaluable information. The High-Performance Computing (HPC) system also relies on real-time system monitoring to maintain the system health, find anomalies and take responsive remedies when necessary to provide a stable and reliable computing resources for researchers. However, due to the large amount of time- series data that are fed quickly into the monitoring data management system (TimeScaleDB in our case), the data volume increases significantly. The increasing data as well as the various data queries degrade the query performance too. In this project, you will be investigating and developing strategies to reduce the data volume and to optimize the query performance. The specific tasks are as follows:
## To Do
- Get familiar with the RedRaider Cluster and understand how the monitoring infrastructure works.
- Install TimescaleDB and play with it in your own environment. Make sure you understand the main concepts of TimescaleDB, know how to collect, insert, and query data from TimescaleDB. After you get familiar with TimescaleDB, you will be provided an account that can access to the data we collected from HPCC.
- Analyze the data volume, query performance, and propose your own strategies to reduce the data volume and/or improve the query performance. Note that due to the limited time, you may focus on one of the directions.
## Deliverables
1. A Git repo containing all your codes, documentation, etc.
2. A project report presenting your ideas, analysis, experimental results, etc.
